It's going to use ref which is we're gonna
go to the ref component
which is this one down here.
This is kind of a funny one.
We talked about it a little bit in
the complete intro to react vi six.
Towards the end, in fact is literally
the last section the portals and refs.
So if you have a piece of
state that you want to survive
past various different rendering cycles,
you can use ref.
So in the complete intro to react
version six, we use that with modals,
right to keep track of a div.
So it's basically a container that
doesn't get modified from the react
lifecycle methods but But it actually
just kind of lives outside of that.
So, I just wanted to show
you the difference here.
We have this num ref here,
which starts at zero and
we also have a piece of state
here that starts at zero as well.
Every time that someone calls, presses
this button here called delay logging,
it's going to call a function
that's going to say,
here's what my current state is and
here is what my ref is.
Notice those are different numbers so
here I say set state state
number plus one and
then I say num ref current plus plus.
So every ref inside of it has
exactly one thing it has.
Num ref.current.
And this is using the property of
JavaScript that if I have a handle on
an object that it doesn't change,
right, the object is stays the same.
So you're gonna be handed back
the same object every single time.
In fact, if I say,
console.log How would you do that, but
if you checked between renders that
if the previous number of current and
the next number of current
are precisely the same thing,
they would be exactly the same object.
Right?
Not even just like equal in value but
also equal that they are identically.
Identities is referring to the same thing.
So this comes in handy in
a very specific few cases.
So again, this comes in handy for things
like holding on to a div between render
cycles because sometimes I need to dispose
of that div later, right or I need to hold
on to a subscription so that later
I can dispose of that subscription.
In this particular case, I want to
show you how these look end up looking
different because if you
press delay logging,
what this is gonna do is it's going
to schedule a timeout here, right?
You can see that and then it's going
to alert What is the state number?
And what is the num ref current state
is actually going to change immediately
because it's going to say set state.
But this num ref or rad it's going to be
the other way around the state number
is going to not have changed,
right because that's going to have been
previously scheduled and
the number of current will have changed.
So if I click delay logging here
Notice here on the page on the right,
state and ref are one, but
here's a state zero and ref is one.
That's because when it was scheduled
state number was zero, right?
And so re renders and it immediately
renders and state is one and ref is one.
But that's because ref has
already been advanced because I
did that num current plus plus or
num ref current plus plus.
And the state number stayed the same
because it's it's using closure to hold on
the previous state of it.
Now if you're looking this is
like why would I ever use this?
The answer is not frequently I would say
most react applications probably don't
need to use refs that frequently.
However, when you need it
You desperately need it.
So it actually is a tool that you probably
need to be peripherally aware of.
Again, we saw that in a previous one with
our plugin the complete intro to react
version 6,
because we had to have it for modals.
So it makes sense.
Does anyone have any questions about this?
I mean, you can see here you can
make it really apparent here.
This ref is one and the status four right
as you can actually if I clicked it
several times in a row,
that's going to be updated.
And if I click Oon a you'll have two,
Three, four, but
it's just catching up
from the previous ones.
>> If I put an object in useRef,
does ref contain a copy of an object or
a reference to that object?
>> It's good question.
So if I say like Is it
a copy of this object?
So the question is if I put
an object into the ref,
does it contain a copy of the object or
is it actually the same object?
Then the answer is it's
actually the same object.
It does not do a deep copy for you,
it's that you will actually be
holding on to that particular object.
Yeah, just keep ref as a container.
You can put anything in there.
You can put objects, you can put
functions, you can put libraries,
I don't know why you would use it for any,
like libraries and things like that, but
you could definitely use it for functions.
I can see reasons to do that.
It's just a container.
You can stick whatever you want in
the container as you can see and
again in the the complete intro to react
version six we put literally a div,
right like we put an HTML
object into the the ref so
that we could reference it later so
that we could remove it from the DOM.